Updated distributed-txns.md and fixed some typos (#4919)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/latest/architecture/transactions/distributed-txns.md

commits.

Provisional records are stored in a separate part of the RocksDB key space in the same RocksDB /
DocDB instance as regular records, but with a separate prefix that puts all provisional records'
RocksDB keys before those of regular records. Compared to other possible design options, such as
storing provisional records inline with the regular records or putting them in a separate RocksDB
instance altogether, the approach we have chosen has the following benefits:
Provisional records are stored are stored in a separate RocksDB instance in the same tablet peer.
Compared to other possible design options, such as storing provisional records inline with the
regular records or putting them in the same RocksDB instance altogether with regular records, the
approach we have chosen has the following benefits:

- It is easy to scan all provisional records. As we will see, this is very helpful in cleaning up
    aborted / abandoned transactions.
- During the read path, we need to handle provisional records very differently compared to regular
    records, and putting them in a separate section of the RocksDB key space allows to simplify the
    read path.

> - Storing provisional records in the same RocksDB instance allows to atomically delete provisional

Reviewer: I thought we didn't call this RocksDB because DocDB is our enhanced version of RocksDB. Does calling it RocksDB add any value to understanding our product?

Author: According to https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/architecture/docdb: "DocDB is YugabyteDB's distributed document store responsible for transactions, sharding, replication, and persistence". So it is a much larger piece than just an enhanced version of RocksDB.

Author: @mbautin @bmatican what do you think?

Reviewer 2: It is fine to say RocksDB here because we are literally talking about separate RocksDB instances as part of the same DocDB instance in the tablet.

> - Storing provisional records in a separate RocksDB instance allows us to have different store,

Reviewer 2: store -> storage

>  compaction and flush strategies for them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 compaction, and flush strategies for them.
```

```
TxnId, HybridTime -> primary provisional record key
```

  This mapping allows us to find all provisional RocksDB records belonging to a particular
  transaction. This is used when cleaning up committed or aborted transactions. Note that
  because multiple RocksDB key-value pairs belonging to primary provisional records can we written
  for the same transaction with the same hybrid time, we need to use an increasing counter (which we
  call a *write ID*) at the end of the encoded representation of hybrid time in order to obtain
  unique RocksDB keys for this reverse index. This write ID is shown as `.0`, `.1`, etc. in
  `T130.0`, `T130.1` in the figure above.

## Transaction status tracking

Atomicity (the "A" in "ACID") means that either all values written by a transaction are visible, or
none are visible at all. YugabyteDB already provides atomicity of single-shard updates by
replicating them via Raft and applying them as one write batch to the underlying RocksDB / DocDB
storage engine. The same approach could be reused to make *transaction status* changes atomic.
The status of transactions is tracked in a "transaction status" table. This table, under the covers,

> is just another sharded table in the system. The transaction ID (a globally unique ID)

Reviewer 2: in the system, although it does not use RocksDB and instead stores all its data in memory, backed by the Raft WAL.

    explicitly passed to all components handling a particular transaction.
  - `Isolation Level` [Snapshot Isolation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snapshot_isolation) or
    [Serializable Isolation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serializability).

>   - `Priority` This priority is assigned randomly during transaction creation when optimistic
>     concurrency control is used. For transaction that is being run under pessimistic concurrency
>     control this priority is assigned to a very high value. When a conflict is detected between two
>     transactions, the transaction with lower priority is aborted and restarted.
>     See [explicit locking in YugabyteDB](../explicit-locking) for more details about concurrency
>     control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `Priority` This priority is assigned randomly during transaction creation, when optimistic concurrency control is used. For a transaction running under pessimistic concurrency control, this priority is assigned a very high value. When a conflict is detected between two transactions, the transaction with lower priority is aborted and restarted.
    For details about concurrency control, see [Explicit locking](../explicit-locking).
```

#### 3. Provisional record keys indexed by transaction ID ("reverse index")

```
TxnId, HybridTime -> primary provisional record key
```

  This mapping allows us to find all provisional RocksDB records belonging to a particular

>   transaction. This is being used when cleaning up committed or aborted transactions. Note that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  transaction. This is used when cleaning up committed or aborted transactions. Note that
```

  because multiple RocksDB key-value pairs belonging to primary provisional records can we written

>   for the same transaction with the same hybrid time, we need to use an increasing counter (which we

Reviewer: Not sure what others said about "hybrid time" versus "hybrid timestamp", but I think this should be "hybrid timestamp" because that is what gets written to the transaction.

>   call a *write ID*) at the end of the encoded representation of hybrid time in order to obtain

Reviewer: "hybrid time" makes sense here, unless you want to say "the encoded hybrid timestamp".

  unique RocksDB keys for this reverse index. This write ID is shown as `.0`, `.1`, etc. in
  `T130.0`, `T130.1` in the figure above.

## Transaction status tracking

Atomicity (the "A" in "ACID") means that either all values written by a transaction are visible, or
none are visible at all. YugabyteDB already provides atomicity of single-shard updates by
replicating them via Raft and applying them as one write batch to the underlying RocksDB / DocDB
storage engine. The same approach could be reused to make *transaction status* changes atomic.
The status of transactions is tracked in a "transaction status" table. This table, under the covers,

> is just another elastic/sharded table in the system. The transaction ID (a globally unique ID)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is just another elastic, or sharded, table in the system. The transaction ID (a globally unique ID)
```

Reviewer 2: I would reomve "elastic/" instead.

serves as the key in the table, and updates to a transaction's status are simple single-shard ACID

> operations. This allows us to atomically make all values written as part of that transaction visible
> by setting the status to "committed" in that transaction's status record in the table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
operations. By setting the status to `committed` in that transaction's status record in the table, all values written as part of that transaction are atomically visible.
.
```
